From: tlrascal@my-deja.com
Subject: Truth about glow plugs
Date: 2000/06/16
Message-ID: <8ie9so$drs$1@nnrp1.deja.com>#1/1
X-Http-Proxy: 1.0 x52.deja.com:80 (Squid/1.1.22) for client 205.188.193.52
Organization: Deja.com - Before you buy.
X-Article-Creation-Date: Fri Jun 16 22:31:52 2000 GMT
X-MyDeja-Info: XMYDJUIDtlrascal
Newsgroups: rec.models.rc.air
X-Http-User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 5.0; AOL 5.0; Windows 98; DigExt)


I have seen several discussions about glow plugs.  One was in response
to MDS problems on break in.  Others have been about poor performance
related to various engines.  Here is my opinion based on 50 years
experience and degrees in Chemistry and Chemical engineering.
The most popular material for glow elements is a platinum iridium and
nichrome material.  Please note that platinum and iridium are expensive
materials so it is not by whim they are used.  The purpose of a glow
plug is to act as a catalyst for a chemical reaction, burning of the
fuel.  This is accomplished by a combination of catalytic action,
cylinder temperature and compression ignition along with the
composition of the fuel.  Platinum and iridium are used because of
their physical properties but most important because the are sources of
free electrons.  When an engine is new there will be a transfer of fine
metal particles microspic in size and these tend to contaminate the
element.  You can tell by removing the plug and looking for a frosty
appearance of the element rather than bright and shiny.  You can bet
for the first few runs it won't take long for this element to get that
frosty look.  The best thing to do is break in on a test stand and use
an inexpensive or old plug for the first 4 or 5 tanks.  Run at full
throttle floowing the prescribed break in for your type of engine.  I
will not go into ABC versus ringed etc in this discussion.  After time
and it will vary from engine to engine you should be able to get a good
steady run at the correct needle setting and the glow plug should be
refreshed and will take several runs before it gets this frosted
appearance.  Just because a plug glows does not mean it is good.  Check
the appearance of the element to make sure it is bright and shiny and
is not grossly distorted.  It is the catalytic action that is important
and the surface free electrons make this possible.  A contaminated
element will not allow for the proper catalytic action.  Check your
plugs often.


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
